# Introduction

This project is dedicated to the topic of deep learning domain adaptation to Electrocargiogram (ECG) data classification. ECG is a non-invasive tool of recording the physiological activity of the heart. This data can be used for diagnosing "premature contractions of the atria (PAC) or ventricles (PVC), atrial fibrillation (AF), myocardial infarction (MI), and congestive heart failure (CHF)" [Hong et al., 2020]. ECG data is a pattern of a P wave, QRS complex, and T wave. "The first peak (P wave) shows how the electrical impulse (excitation) spreads across the two atria of the heart. The atria contract (squeeze), pumping blood into the ventricles, and then immediately relax. The electrical impulse then reaches the ventricles. This can be seen in the Q, R and S waves of the ECG, which is called the QRS complex. The ventricles contract. Then the T wave shows that the electrical impulse has stopped spreading, and the ventricles relax once again" [National Library of Medicine, 2022]. Traditionally, ECG data is analyzed through signal processing approach (Time Series with signal intensity), but nowadays other approaches are becoming increasingly popular, i.e., representation of ECG data as a sequence of beats for sequential deep learning models or as 2D boolean (zeros or ones) image for image-based deep learning [Hong, et al., 2020; Somani et al., 2021]. (Здесь будет фокус работы, наподобие In this project I am planning to focus on методы глубинного обучения, которые обсудим.)

(Здесь будет небольшой обзор работ, которые применяют эти методы. Я прочитал хотя бы по одной статье, где применялся анализ ECG как изображений, как сигналов, как последовательных данных.)

While deep learning shows superior results for heart disease detection via ECG data [Clifford et al., 2017; Hong et al., 2020], it still has its own problems and pitfalls. Issues like lack of big datasets and imbalanced datasets, as well as problems with interpretrability were raised [Hong et al., 2020]. One of the biggest risks in the current application of deep learning to ECG data is that it is vulnerable to adversarial attacks [Han et al., 2020]. Another problem arises with lack of diversity in datasets. Most of the datasets have the same source, so it could have a poor generalization to various hospital or wearable devices ECG data [Somani et al., 2021]. These two problems are in the focus of this project. Using domain adaptation techniques I aim to improve generalizability of ECG data classification.

Domain adaptation is a part of transfer learning techniques. While transfer learning in general concerns with creating models that are able to generalize to tasks, feature space and distributions different from the ones that are present in a training dataset [Pan, 2009], domain adaptation works with the same task for divergent distributions and feature space. Scholars categorize domain adaptation techniques into two broad categories: with shallow and deep architectures [Farahani et al., 2020]. This project will explore only deep architectures.

This project has two stages: initial and final ones. During the initial stage I am planning to implement one paper with a domain adaptation technique on two datasets. The first dataset will be one of the classical datasets that are used for domain adaptation tasks, for example, Office-31 [Saenko et al., 2010] or GTSRB [Stallkamp et al., 2012] datasets. The second one will focus on ECG data. This will could be, for example, data from Cardiology Challenge 2020 [Alday et al., 2020]. The algorithm for the initial stage will probably be CDTrans, transformer based algorithm [Xu et al., 2022]. Paper implementation will be done in PyTorch.